feat(service-worker): add `openWindow` and `lastFocusedOrOpen` to not… (#42520)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/service-worker-notifications.md

# Service worker notifications

Push notifications are a compelling way to engage users. Through the power of service workers, notifications can be delivered to a device even when your application is not in focus.

The Angular service worker enables the display of push notifications and the handling of notification click events.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

  When using the Angular service worker, push notification interactions are handled using the `SwPush` service.
  To learn more about the native APIs involved see [Push API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Push_API) and [Using the Notifications API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Notifications_API/Using_the_Notifications_API).

</div>

#### Prerequisites

> A basic understanding of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend you have a basic understanding of the following:
```
Suggestion to form a complete sentence.

- [Getting Started with Service Workers](guide/service-worker-getting-started).

## Notification payload

Invoke push notifications by pushing a message with a valid payload. See `SwPush` for guidance.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

  In Chrome, you can test push notifications without a backend.
  Open Devtools -> Application -> Service Workers and use the `Push` input to send a JSON notification payload.

</div>

## Notification click handling

The default behaviour for the `notificationclick` event, is to close the notification and notify `SwPush.notificationClicks`.

> This can easily be changed by adding an `onActionClick` property to the `data` object, and provide a `default` operation.

Reviewer 2: Let's make it more clear that the `onActionClick` entries only configure _additional_ behavior (instead of changing the default behavior described above). How about:

```suggestion
You can specify an additional operation to be executed on `notificationclick` by adding an `onActionClick` property to the `data` object, and providing a `default` entry. This is especially useful for when there are no open clients when a notification is clicked.
```

```json
{
  "notification": {
    "title": "New Notification!",
    "data": {
      "onActionClick": {
        "default": {"operation": "openWindow", "url": "foo"}
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Operations

The Angular service worker supports the following operations:

- `openWindow`: Opens a new tab at the specified URL, which is resolved relative to the service worker scope.

- `focusLastFocusedOrOpen`: Focuses the last focused client. If there is no client open, then it opens a new tab at the specified URL, which is resolved relative to the service worker scope.

- `navigateLastFocusedOrOpen`: Focuses the last focused client and navigates it to the specified URL, which is resolved relative to the service worker scope. If there is no client open, then it opens a new tab at the specified URL.

<div class="alert is-important">

>   If an `onActionClick` item does not define a `url`, then the service worker's registration scope will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If an `onActionClick` item does not define a `url`, then the service worker's registration scope is used.
```
Removed passive voice.

     "badge": USVString
     "body": DOMString,
     "data": any,
     "dir": "auto"|"ltr"|"rtl",
     "icon": USVString,
     "image": USVString,
     "lang": DOMString,
     "renotify": boolean,
     "requireInteraction": boolean,
     "silent": boolean,
     "tag": DOMString,
     "timestamp": DOMTimeStamp,
     "title": DOMString,
     "vibrate": number[]
   }
 }
```

Only `title` is required. See `Notification` [instance properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Notification#Instance_properties).

<div class="alert is-helpful">

  In chrome you can push a notification without a backend.
  Open chrome devtools -> Application -> Service Workers -> Use the `Push` input to send a valid json notification payload

</div>

### Notification Behaviour

The default behaviour for the `notificationclick` event, is to close the notification.

This can easily be changed by adding a `onActionClick` field to the data object, and provide a `default` operation.

```json
{
  "notification": {
    "title": "New Notification!",
    "data": {
      "onActionClick": {
        "default": {"operation": "openWindow", "url": "/foo"}
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> ### Operations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Operations
```

Angular service worker supports the following operations:

- `openWindow`: will open a new client at the given url relative to the service worker scope

- `focusLastFocusedOrOpen`: will focus the last focussed client. If there is no client open, then will open a new client at the given url relative to the service worker scope

- `navigateLastFocusedOrOpen`: will focus the last focussed client and navigate that client to the given url relative to the service worker scope. If there is no client open, then will open a new client at the given url relative to the service worker scope

> ### Actions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Actions
```

> Actions are a good way to expand how the end user interacts with the notification.
> 
> Using the `onActionClick` field, each action can be tied to an `operation`:

Reviewer 2: Let's also mention `actions`. How about:

```suggestion
Actions offer a way to customize how the user can interact with a notification.

Using the `actions` property, you can define a set of available actions. Each action is represented as an action button that the user can click to interact with the notification.

In addition, using the `onActionClick` property on the `data` object, you can tie each action to an operation to be performed when the corresponding action button is clicked:
```

```ts
{
  "notification": {
    "title": "New Notification!",
    "actions": [
      {"action": "foo", "title": "Open new tab"},
      {"action": "bar", "title": "Focus last"},
      {"action": "baz", "title": "Navigate last"},

>       {"action": "bazza", "title": "default openWindow"}

Reviewer 2: AFAICT, nothing will happen when 
```suggestion
      {"action": "qux", "title": "Just notify existing clients"}
```

    ],
    "data": {
      "onActionClick": {
        "default": {"operation": "openWindow", "url": "/foo"},
        "foo": {"operation": "openWindow", "url": "/foo"},
        "bar": {"operation": "focusLastFocusedOrOpen", "url": "/foo"},
        "baz": {"operation": "navigateLastFocusedOrOpen", "url": "/foo"}
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<div class="alert is-important">

>   If an action does not have a corresponding `onActionClick` field, then it will use the configured `default` `onActionClick`.

Reviewer 2: This is not true any more :grin:
Maybe instead mention what happens when the user clicks on the notification itself without clicking on a specific action.

</div>

<div class="alert is-important">

>   If a corresponding `onActionClick` field does not have a defined `url` then the service worker's registration scope will be used with no path.

Reviewer 2: I think this information should be moved to the `Operations` section.
